don't just unsubscribe and re-subscribe
but that only fixes it for like 10
minutes and then it comes hey there hey
I rely hi hi hey I see Hannah see Terry
I see I see a lot of people now go
through all the names let's begin hello
my name is Portia and welcome to the
ipfs all hands on call this the call
where you get a chance to listen to some
of the exciting projects happening in
the ipfs community of today's name
speaker is Michael Rogers and the name
of his presentation is called the
internet of data but before we get into
the main presentation we will start with
announcements
yeah oh I work on lots of things yeah so
this talk oh okay my own internet cut
out for a moment before we begin to talk
we will start with announcement so have
announcements
check I don't see any announcements so
let us begin with the presentation then
Molly was raising her hand
Oh Molly I'm sorry everyone from the
beads point from last week's call that
everyone who is participating in okay
ours please make sure you're scoring
your mid-quarter okay ours we do it
asynchronously but it helps us keep
track of all of the awesome initiatives
that are making progress and which
things we need to put more wood behind
so we can get them done before the end
of the course so thanks to everyone for
spending some time on that this week
thanks Molly
anyway else hey hands okay let's begin
um hey yeah yeah you can introduce it
right yeah so welcome Michael Rogers I
and we are going to listen to your
presentation which is called the
internet of data yeah okay so just some
quick background while I get this you're
working so um yeah so uh this so often
like way in advance I have to like
commit to when a topic is for a
particular talk and so this was like you
know four months ago or so maybe five
when I had to commit to Acadia and so I
decided that I was going to trying to
talk that but basically taking our
vision for the next version of the
decentralized web I'm trying to boil it
down to something that like everyday web
developers can understand and create
sort of a narrative like why that's
important and sort of some of the
primitives in our view of kind of
content addressing as a way to really
open up something you can't do right now
on the web so that's this presentation
can yell ch and SWAT that didn't block
though okay do you see again you don't
see the zoom tool cool okay all right so
yeah so that that talk was call up the
future of the web vision for an Internet
I think for this audience Internet of
data is probably a little bit better so
anyway that's me all right so start with
back in the 90s even though this is a
future talk we need to kind of start
back at the beginning so if you roll
back to the mid 90s you know you'll see
that there was a real fight for the
future of the web actually just the
future of the Internet there wasn't
really a dominant application platform
for the internet yet and what there was
was like a bunch of kind of content
portals AOL is the most notable one but
there was this vision of the Internet as
basically being a way for individual
consumers to connect with different
peoples corporate content portals and
that like this was like what what
they'll get used to refer to this as the
information superhighway that was
actually like a different
for what businesses would look like on
the internet and then there was this
thing called the web and if you're
looking at both of them kind of side by
side here like one is a lot and I
started used in the sector like like a
lot of things in that era were much
better like all the content in there is
like professional there's a taxonomy
that makes sense
fine things and just like you know going
to go like if somebody wants to tell me
about something on the web versus on AOL
like Oprah every day on her show would
be like go to keyword Oprah in AOL just
type in Oprah and you'll see all of my
content and everything that we split up
specially and on the web it was like oh
I have a page about Oprah it's like HTTP
colon backslash backslash and then
literally like you had to type all that
in the browser wasn't fun enough yet to
have for you
so there's life like from a consumer
standpoint one of these was
significantly worse in terms of
experience but as we know like the web
one and and the reason that the web one
was that we had URLs and links
essentially so the starting point for
putting content on to a o/l was like it
a keyword so that was like you know be
Oprah
like if you're Oprah you can get keyword
at Oprah but if you're not you like
can't really put guts into a well very
usually on the web like everybody could
create and like create a website and put
up these really ugly URLs and then most
importantly everybody else can link to
those URLs you have this Universal way
to connect everything together and so
now when I create like my Oprah blog you
know blog didn't exist back then but if
I created an over log like you know
people somebody's favorite page could
point to it and somebody could create a
web ring and other people start creating
content and eventually what we get is
you know this this huge mesh of content
that is all interlinked and so when
we're comparing like you know you can't
really compare like my blog or my
favorites or any individual page to like
the professional Oprah content on AOL
when you took like this huge network of
content and the cumulative value of that
network of content it was it was like
actually incomparable to the yellow
president's just so massive and so
valuable and so and then when you take
this little little section of Oprah
content and you put it all together like
in the web ended up being this
unbelievably valuable huge network and
because of those network effects you're
comparing something much more valuable
to that content portal AOL and and of
course like this is growing
exponentially at the time it and still
and so part of the value the value here
is the network not any individual piece
of the network right okay so to the
weather like built on the network
effective lakes like in the modern era
when we talk about the web instinctively
developers think about you know
standards and web frameworks and java
scripts and all the stuff but like you
really have to go back to the beginning
there to realize like the foundational
building blocks here are linked in URLs
so look at links and URLs so an earl has
a transport which is like it so actually
let's go backwards so let's start with
content so you have like a named value
for a content like you you either make
it the index of a particular page or you
say like this is the name of a page then
there's an authority so I you told me
what the name of this content is who do
I ask for the content and then when I
ask them they'll tell me oh this name
belongs to this particular piece of
content and there's a transport which is
how I go and ask that Authority for that
content and this is like how content is
addressed on the web today so that's
that's problematic because the notice
that like centralization is baked in the
network as a whole like the entire web
is federated because anybody can put
these up but actual URLs are centralized
you have to talk to your particular
location comes applies to more than just
the HTML for that content to some extent
HTML and static assets are really a big
problem like when I pull up twitter.com
or facebook.com I can and do really
manipulate that page because once it's
in the browser and as part of the open
web I can remove ads I can like change
works like that stress me out like
Trump's words that don't like daisies
like you literally do that in browsers
amazing but the web and whether the
locations are much more than static
assets like modern web applications pull
a ton of their content information in
dynamically from web services and these
web services are all like addressed by
these URLs so they are centralized and
so what you end up getting is like data
centralization kind of baked in even
though you can talk to multiple services
and like
holding the contact many where anybody
can put up a website if I want to have
relationships between two pieces of data
I have to put that in a content silo
behind an API and the thing about this
is that there's no good way right now to
not build this way if I want to make a
multi-user application I essentially
have to go and build a data silo so like
every web developer right now who cares
about a lot of the problems on the
Internet still has to like make a
decision and go and build an application
and effectively build it the same way
that we always have and so this drive
like this drives costs for applications
because you have to have like this huge
content or this huge like data silo one
of the early toxic Cascadia was on odd
functions and it's literally like
pennies to run like a million function
executions or something and but if you
start just logging a little bit of data
in those functions your bill will just
get massive because storage is not cheap
it's not ten years per execution and it
only grows over time and so because
applications cost money to build
especially multi-user applications
that's where we have to basically create
actors in business models as businesses
is a primary business on the web because
in order to participate in those network
effects that we saw before you
essentially have to have the content
open to the public and linkable and so
having content the hot like behind some
kind of pay wall makes is very very hard
to participate in the network effects so
that really incentivizes people to
create a driven business models and what
we see now is that on a long enough
timeline these ad models like they start
adding machine learning algorithm learn
and what they learn is that the best way
to continue to attract our attention is
to push us towards more and more extra
content and so essentially like
radicalization is sort of like the end
state of a driven business on the web
it's what they inevitably get to because
it is just a most efficient way to make
us all watch YouTube all day and we have
like unlike you know static assets that
can loaded in the browser that you can
manipulate we have like no visibility in
these algorithms we can't change the
data that comes out of them they just
don't participate in the open web in the
way that you know the rest of the
resources that are standardized do okay
so like breakfast
Rick is in a little bit more like you
have web application to talk to multiple
api's all those api's talk to different
databases right so if we want to get rid
of just this API layer that is so
problematic we have to look at you know
what we might need to connect you what
we might need to replace once you start
to drill into this what these databases
do is they take data structures in some
kind of serialized form and then they
actually serialize them again to disk or
often you know to a network of servers
that are actually writing them to disk
and they provide certain consistency
guarantees both on the read and write
edge and it's it's hard if you haven't
done database engineering to really
understand but API calls that users make
when they make just very simple API is
really depend on and take for granted
the consistency guarantees of these data
structures and databases there there are
literally sort of on disk guarantees at
like the eff sink layer and a lot of
databases that bubble all the way up to
the end of an API call and if you want
to start replacing the API is you
literally have to go all the way down
and start to think about okay what do we
do when we take a data structure in
memory and it has to leave memory it has
to be shared out with other people or it
has to be written to disk for long-term
storage like that part of thing has to
be completely rethought from scratch in
order to actually solve this problem
because that part needs to be
decentralized it needs to work outside
of a data silo so if we come back to the
Earle we have to get rid of all of this
because we we can't be asking for
particular authorities for content
anymore
and it turns out that another thing that
an authority does is that it creates
like a de facto namespace right because
since I'm asking that Authority I can
assign these human readable names to
everything and then that authority says
you know if this is the latest version
of that or not so we kind of have to get
rid of that if we if we have like a
global decentralized network we're not
going to have this namespace own website
anymore and so we essentially can hash
the content and this is where we start
to get into a larger view of hashing I
think it been around for a very very
long time but it seems like all the time
we're figuring out new ways to work with
hash content new primitives that we can
build on top of hash a it's an
incredibly powerful concept
and I promise I'm not going to talk
about watching that's an important part
of the talks that we don't asleep
watching Oh cut so this is content
accessibility basically if we start with
rather than referring to things by you
know URLs or human readable names that
we create if we instead say okay the way
that we're going to refer to data is by
the hash of that data then we get some
really interesting benefits out of that
one is that like this primitive doesn't
require us to centralize the data data
can come from anywhere and we have a way
to graphically to verify that we are
talking about the same data and that I
got the right data so this proof is
really important because there's a lot
but really liberate us from having to
talk to an authority or do some kind of
access control or like you know
authentication dance because if I have
the hash of data and I get it from
literally anybody over any transport it
doesn't matter how I get it I can verify
that data came that data is the data
that I needed that we worked and we were
talking about the same thing okay so to
give like a very kind of high-level view
of what this looks like in sort of a
pseudo code we at protocol as we have a
primitive called C ID or a Content ID
which is a hash with like a little bit
of extra data in front of it that tells
you how to interpret it how to pull
additional links out of it so if I you
know published a blog I would have like
the title of that blog and some posts
and then those would essentially have C
ideas in them that are links to that
content and allies network and so then I
would say oh hey yeah I go I need to go
get that hashed out and I literally get
this hash from anywhere anybody any
transport I can have it in a local cache
indefinitely offline I could have it in
you know a local network not even
connected to the Internet I could grab
it of the peer-to-peer network I could
get out of a CDN anyway that is the
fastest and simplest way to get this
content doesn't matter how I get it and
then of course
Sally creates a list of her favorite
blogs she can link to my blog because
there's this universal identifier just
like an Earl like these hashes end up
becoming Universal identifiers on a
global Internet and has an ingredient
that also points at my blog and so you
can see how we're starting to build the
same sort of network effects
links for web applications and content
at the actual data layer you know at a
much more primitive layer and the
interesting thing about this is that you
know each of these actors can be hosting
this content in completely different
locations so just like on the web not
all the web sites are in the same place
but we can still link to each other and
create a network of value and here we
actually have data structures like you
know this aggregator you know points to
the data in my blog directly but
somebody else is hosting it or maybe I'm
hosting all of this I pulled it all into
a local cache to work offline all of
that works we don't have to change the
data structure we don't have to do any
kind of extra dance this is you know
I've done offline stuff for a really
long time this is sort of this is really
interesting where you can actually stop
thinking about authenticating to a place
and then in your offline cache saying oh
well this is like the authenticated data
that I got from this particular location
you don't have to keep any kind of
reference around for how you got that
data it doesn't really matter it's all
stash so for like a more realistic use
case so universities published genomics
data it's a huge amount of data and then
if I want to create like do regression I
want to you know take a collection of
all of their data pointed it and go and
do that regression so with these
primitives like I wouldn't have to host
all that data locally inserted into a
single format I can literally create a
new data structure that pointed at all
the data structures that people are
publishing and it will go and pull them
out from either directly from the
universities where they're hosting them
or from you know mirrors that's faster
literally anywhere that could have the
data and then the results of that
regression can point again directly into
these sub parts of that date those data
structures where we you don't find the
things that we're looking for and again
I don't have to be hosting all of these
little individual leaf nodes of data I
can create a very big robust data
structure and only actually store or you
know continue to publish
you
you can start to imagine how to build a
b-tree IQ figure if I had to do that
google interview and then never use any
of that data again you can actually like
Bill you know these fancy data
structures that are very big and we can
start to recreate what databases do in a
very siloed centralized way for the web
and this is a quote this is Michael and
I said this um but actually after I said
this is like this is just for this
audience it into the Cascadia after the
first time I set this out loud it was at
once house with Stephen and right
afterwards Stephen corrected me instead
no they're like pointers in rust because
they can only be for it was like that's
true okay anyway okay all right so so
but the end state here is that we again
you know we create something like the
web for data we can start to you know
like as we start to create you know the
next big application like the size of
Twitter or Facebook these big multi-user
applications if we start to build them
on these primitives then the data is
going to end up having access to the
same kinds of network effects that the
web has access to because all of a
sudden like my tweet data is incredibly
open and linkable and usable by all
these different use cases that I never
thought of that
and people can build new applications
and new value on top of them and we can
start to create in the value of the
network and so when people start to make
these comparisons about like oh well
what is a good use case for these
primitives or what is it like the thing
that we're not doing it implying that
like everything we've done so far is the
right way to do things and that there's
a new there's a new set of things that
we need to do is that you're solving for
but if you just like recreated Twitter
recreated Facebook or something like
that and it could participate in the
network effects of this data you we blow
you know Twitter and Facebook out of the
water because the the value of that data
is so much more valuable and like to
public into everybody then Twitter or
Facebook because it is not locked up in
this content silo like we basically
start to create this Internet of data
and that's what we want to push for and
so yeah so we're working on this and I
feel be we're running some respects were
literally in the earliest stages
possible of this so we are examining
like fundamental data structures and
starting to rebuild some of
that having some discussion so if you're
really interested go and check except
and that's the talk hopefully that was
shorter than the talk that I gave you
Cascadia going really fast
I don't I stopped sharing did I stop
sharing it's at the top of your screen
there we go there we go
there's a button okay is a question time
round of
you
hello definitely his question time
in terms of like the relationship with
blockchain I think it's almost better to
talk about blockchain and declare this
is not explaining blockchains
this is explaining some technical
principles that blockchains do use but
you could use them too and like make
that case because I think a lot of
people are curious they want to know
more about blockchain so showing like
hey this is this is connecting with that
domain but is just using the parts that
are useful without committing to a whole
like mindset of something that might be
a fad yeah I mean obviously like a lot
of people that are familiar with content
addressing are familiar with blockchain
like that's how they're familiar with it
I think that the one the hard parts of
the hard thing that breaking that out is
they think of content interesting in
like a like a stylet almost namespace
way right where it's like oh this is a
great way to address content like in the
blockchain or in the Bitcoin network or
in the etherion Network
you
conversation I did it end up realizing
that at some point you probably need to
work in something about blockchain
because somebody was literally asking me
like Oh like you know how would you you
know create like a history of changes to
that data structure and then like I
always get the new one in like a chain
and I was like you can subscribe so yeah
that was so yeah I I agree like there
needs to be some kind of way to at some
point you need to show like oh this is
the primitive that you also use for
Pocket any other questions
I was wondering D Phillips you know or
how important is it in these sort of the
intro talk stage versus later on and
they get you know more in-depth to
discuss sort of the difference between
we'll call it like paying for everything
and things being free both from sort of
in both directions most of the fact that
we get everything for free because of
ads but also and in a decentralized way
maybe it's a little different and the
opposite where we're the peer-to-peer
network means you're relying on some
sort of benevolence of the masses to
help you get the pointers around whereas
you know DNS operates differently so one
of the things that I specifically wanted
to avoid was talking about how you get
this data because it's honestly like a
big kind of question mark like we we
have ways that we're currently
purchasing around this data but you you
could take all of the blocks ever and
put them into a centralized lock store
and just only talk to that like that
that is actually a possibility right and
like I know that Google has people like
looking at the centralized web
technology and sort of the built indexes
of around it and what they're probably
doing is just taking all of the hashes
ever and putting them into a giant
centralized store and then look and then
examining the links of them and so um
I think that like once we have a real
flow for people to make some structured
data and then publish it and host it we
have a whole workflow around that where
you know here's how you host it by
yourself and definitely here's how you
pay somebody else to host it once we
have that workflow then we can start to
talk about how people get it and how
they keep it alive indefinitely and what
the cost structure is for that but like
until we happen until we're literally
demoing that flow I would rather not
check to get into those issues right
okay looking at the chat queue now
that's what we're doing now Johnny
cruncher up yeah so I've been involved
in the w3c recently and been a bit
frustrated because they have very much
URL focused of view of the world so if
there were to be standards they implies
standards bodies so where do you see
this work going for what standards
bodies to push this forward so obviously
things are really early so we want to
make sure that we don't try to
standardize too early that said like
there are some parts of our stacks that
we know aren't changing right like multi
hash is not changing and and if it is
like that would be like a big breaking
change and effectively like a new
standard so we there's there's some low
level stuff that we do want to start to
get on standards track but probably not
that at the w3c at the IETF instead the
ITF it's just like a bit easier to work
with for a whole variety of reasons and
a lot of like web standards are at the
ITF by the way so it's not like out of
the room cost like yeah it's only only a
section of web standards mostly all the
Dom stuff is only at the w3c /wg like
HTTP to most cryptography stuff is all I
get the IETF so it kind of makes sense
for us to go that route yeah I have a
colleague this week with with somebody
that we may be working with to try to
help us get this some of the
multi-format stuff on the sender's track
okay and Hanna
have the last question hey um I'm just
curious if you got any questions about
private data authenticated data just
because someone who normally builds web
applications when I'm not working I PFS
most things and have an authentication
system and then privatized data yeah
yeah I think that the the analogous part
of that story for from my stock like
people did ask about that afterwards um
and I just said like you need to encrypt
the data like frankly like um the issue
was having like globally
you
all of the ad and everything and so I
talked to Carter about it and they are
going to get ox to Carter after they're
done editing them she doesn't know what
that timeline is but afterwards and
they'll go on the YouTube okay excellent
um that concludes our presentation and
before you log off I want to I was
having problems with my Wi-Fi connection
so I am sorry if you were not able if
it's cut out so I'll be sure to address
that problem for next week thank you
very much and I'll see you next week bye